---
layout:     post
title:      Bonds
subtitle:   Interest Rate Market by Siddhartha Jha
date:       2019-06-25
author:     Zcc
header-img: img/post-bg-cook.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Fixed Income
---

> * Bonds are the starting point and foundation for understanding fixed income market
> * Standardized form of loan between investors and debt holders

## BASIC OF BONDS

In the bond space, when mention a change in 5-year bond yield, the change may not be referring to the same 5-year bond.  
> * on-the-run bond: newly auctioned bond
> * off-the-run bond: older auctioned bond, double off-the-run etc

The Treasury bond yield curve consists of on-the-run Treasury bond yield, which represents the prevailing market interest rate. 

## RISKS EMBEDDE IN FIXED INCOME INSTRUMENTS

> * Interest rate risk
> * Credit risk
> * Inflation risk
> * Financing/liquidity risk
> * Tax risk
> * Regulatory risk

### Interest Rate Risk

The interest rate that the fixed rate bond is sensitive to is always the rate being offered in the market on similar instruments. A 10-year U.S. corporate bond will not be sensitive to changes in rates offered by 5-year Korean government bonds. But in financial world, interests are highly correlated, making it crucial to track global flows and developments to effectively manage the interest rate risk.

## YIELD CURVE

In the Treasury market and other high-quality bond credit bond markets, yields are the standard way of comparing bonds. It's also called internal rate of return of a bond, enabled the comparison of bonds with different maturities.  

By placing bonds of different maturities on a level playing field, here comes the yield curve, which can help us see the state of the market. The yield curve can be thought of as the **price of lending (borrowing)** money over different points in time.  

> upward sloping yield curve theory: 
> * term premium: investors prefer short-term investment than long-term
> * expectations: market expectations for IR in the future, which is useful in judging state of the economy
> * segmentation: certain investor classes prefer to invest in certain maturity ranges

In sum, the yield curve is likely a mix of market expectations as well as some risk aversion, while certain niche sectors may feel the effects of segmentation.

## DURATION

When investing in bond, It is crucial to adjust one’s mind-set in fixed income markets to think about risk rather than notional exposure, given the vastly different risk exposure of different maturity bonds. **Carry and rolldown**, instead of price, are the reason for fixed income investment. 

1. *Macaulay duration*, which is weighted time of cash flows. It is roughly the time it takes to recover half the cash flows of the security
> $D_{MC} = 1 \times (c/2)/(1+r/2)^1 + 2 \times (c/2)/(1+r/2)^2 + ... + t \times (c/2)/(1+r/2)^{n\times 2} $

2. *Modified duration*, which is calculated as Macaulay duration divided by 1 +
yield to maturity of the bond.  
> If Modified duration for a 10y bond is 8.0, then 1% move in the yield will cause price to change $8.  

3. *DV01*, modified duration $\times$ price.  

Finally, since fixed income trades are normally quoted in the yield term, it's normal to convert up-front cash flow to a running cash flow: 
> per-year amount = up-front amount/ Macaulay duration  

The concept of duration can be thought of as a **linear effect** on P/L for changes in yields.

## CONVEXITY

The reasoning behind the presence of convexity in bonds stems from the **nature of discounting**. For any cash flow in the future, the value today is reduced to account for the prevailing interest rate.

The links among volatility, convexity, and asymmetry of payoffs are crucial to understand as we are in a volatile market and consider more complicated bond products and especially options.

The second-order approximation for bond price:  
> $P = \Delta \times \Delta y + 1/2 \times C \times (\Delta y)^2 ...$  
Where  
$P$ = price, $D$ = duration, $C$ = convexity, $\Delta y$ = change in yield

The formula for convexity: 
> $C = 1/\[P \times (1+y)^2 \] \times \sum_{t=1}^{to N} {\[C \times (t^2+t)/(1+y)^2 \]}$

As the maturity of a bond **increases**, the discounting effects increase, adding to the asymmetry stemming from compounding. A lower-coupon bond tends to have higher convexity than a higher-coupon bond because a greater percentage of cash flows are in the future, thus amplifying ***discount effects***. 

## REPO MARKET

p43

## BID OFFER

In the Treasury space, prices are quoted in 32nd, as a XXX-YY  
> 112-10 is equal to 112 + 10/32 and 112-10+ is equal to 112 + 10.5/32

## CARRY

> ***carry*** : the net income from owning an asset

Carry from owning a gold bar is generally negative due to storage cost. Carry from owning equities is the difference between dividend income and the cost of financing. Carry here has nothing to do with the price of assets. 

In the bond space, carry is, most of time, position since longer-term rates (i.e., the coupon) have tended to be higher than the short-term rates where the financing rate is benchmarked.
> carry of bond = coupon - financing cost of the position  

Here's a calculation example: 
> ...

## FORWARD RATES

We try to understand forward rates using carry concept, which delivers a way for calculation of P/L of investing in bond futures. 
> 1. Buy a 2-year bond with settle date January 31, 2010 expiring on January 31, 2012.  
2. Buy the bond expiring January 31, 2012 on a forward basis on April 30, 2010 (assume no coupon payments occur between January 31, 2010, and April 30, 2010).  
If the spot yield is 1.00%, the forward yield if 1.10%, implied bond carry for 2-month is 1.10% - 1.00% = 0.10%, under the **assumption** of forward yields to **converge** to spot yield. 

> price carry = carry in yield * duration = 10 bps * 1.9 = 19bps = $0.19

In general, forward rates are **not good predictors** of spot yields in the future, which makes carry trading attractive, but if rates become volatile, the steady gains from carry can also be easily overwhelmed.

## ROLLDOWN/SLIDE

> In the market practice, carry = pure carry + rolldown  
> Rolldown: P/L of bond price due to asset aging effect

Rolldown calculation is assuming unchanged yield curve, but it's not a realistic expectation. As a result, rolldown is **unstable**, compared with pure carry. Pure carry can be fixed if financing rate is fixed.  

Rolldown offers an estimate of the breakeven in a trade. The rolldown of a bond tells the investor how much the yield curve can move against her position before a negative P/L results. In all, rolldown is for a purpose of risk management.  
> 3M carry + rolldown = (3M forward 9Y9M rate - 10Y rate) + (10Y rate - 9Y9M rate)  
> =(3M forward 9Y9M rate - 9Y9M rate)  
> $\approx$ (3M forward 10Y rate - 10Y rate), when curve is not steep

## CURVES AND SPREADS

## BUTTERFLY TRADES

## SUMMARY
